Daniel received a prophecy
about the coming of two rivals:
“the king of the north”
and “the king of the south.”
How has it been fulfilled?
In the late 1800’s, the German Empire
became the king of the north.
That government brought
its “power and . . . heart
“against the king of the south
with a large army.”
In fact, its navy was
the second largest on earth.
Who became the king of the south?
The alliance between Britain
and the United States.
He fought during World War I
“with an exceedingly large
and mighty army.”
He “swept away” and “humbled”
the king of the north.
But that was not the end
of the king of the north.
He turned his attention to and then hurled
“denunciations against the holy covenant.”
He removed “the constant feature”
by limiting the freedom of God’s people
to preach,
imprisoning many,
and even killing hundreds
of God’s anointed ones
and their fellow workers.
After Germany was defeated in World War II,
the Soviet Union
became the king of the north.
It worked with the king of the south
to “put in place the disgusting thing
that causes desolation”
—the United Nations.
Beginning in the early 1900’s,
the Soviet government tried to eliminate
religion in the lands under its control,
fulfilling the words
that he would “show no regard
for the God of his fathers.”
He gave glory, not to the God of heaven,
but “to the god of fortresses.”
As prophesied,
he used this military might
against the king of the south
by engaging “with him in a pushing.”
Anglo-America competed
with the Soviet Union
for world domination,
fighting in and supporting wars
and political struggles around the globe.
After the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991,
it was unclear who would fill the role
of the king of the north.
For a time, God’s people there
had been able to preach
and worship peacefully.
But in recent years, Russia and its allies
have pushed back at the king of the south.
Both kings have accused each other
of destructive cyber and economic attacks.
But the king of the north has not limited
his attacks to the king of the south.
As foretold, he also entered
“into the land of the Decoration”
—our realm of spiritual activity.
Today, Russian authorities continue
to attack true worship.
We expect such persecution,
but we also expect it to end.
Our King, Jesus Christ,
is more powerful than any human government.
Soon he will destroy
not only the kings of the north and the south
but all of his enemies,
and he will deliver God’s loyal people.